this is a video I should probably have
made a while ago but better late than
never
I've been talking about AI safety for
quite a while now and in a very public
way on the computer file channel since
about 2014 from the beginning a lot of
AI safety advocacy has had a certain
quality to it which to be honest I'm
sure I've contributed to a little bit
and it's true that ah might be the
appropriate response to the problem but
if you want to warn people about
something it matters how you phrase
things and how you frame things ideally
the arguments would stand on their own
merits people should be able to look at
the facts and decide for themselves and
one of the things I'm trying to do with
this channel is to give people the
information they need to form their own
informed opinions about this kind of
thing but at the end of the day most
people don't have the time to put in to
get the required level of understanding
and they shouldn't have to I mean it's
not actually possible to study
everything in enough detail to
understand it there's just too much to
know so we have experts but this kind of
sucks because then how you choose your
experts it turns clear objective
questions about science and facts into
these messy ambiguous questions about
status and respectability and a lot of
the time scientists don't want to lower
themselves to playing that kind of game
so they don't play at all or play
half-heartedly
but this is one of those games you can't
win if you don't play and we do need to
win there are problems with having to
trust experts but ultimately
specialization is how we manage to swap
sucky problems like we keep being eaten
by predators for really cool problems
like what if our technology becomes too
powerful and solves our problems to
effectively that's a good problem to
have yes sorry Island insects are one of
the most successful groups of animals on
earth so a couple of years ago people
had a go at making AI safety more
respectable with this open letter which
was often reported something like
Stephen Hawking Elon Musk and Bill Gates
warned about artificial intelligence
usually with a picture of the Terminator
also surprisingly often Stephen
Hawking's why does this keep happening
is he secretly a team of clones
anyway the letter itself isn't very long
and basically just says AI is advancing
very rapidly and having more and more
impact so we need to be thinking about
ways to make sure that impact is
beneficial it says we need to do more
research on this
and it links to a document gives more
detail about what that research might
look like so the content of the letter
itself isn't much to talk about but the
core message I think is that this stuff
isn't just science fiction and it's not
just futurologists who are talking about
it real serious people are concerned
this was good for respectability with
the general public because everyone's
heard of these people and knows them to
be respectable smart people but I've
seen people who are slightly more
sophisticated noticing that none of
those people are AI researchers
professor Hawking is a physicist Bill
Gates is a software developer but
Microsoft at the time he was working
there was never really an AI company
doesn't count and Elon Musk so seriously
overpowered is more of a business person
and an engineer so why do these people
know anything in particular about AI but
there are actually more than 8,000
signatures on this letter top of the
list here is Stuart Russell he's
actually currently working on AI safety
and I plan to make some videos about
some of his work later if you've never
studied AI you may not know who he is
but he's a pretty big name I'm not going
to say he wrote the book on artificial
intelligence but I am going to imply it
pretty heavily and of course his
co-author on that book Peter Norvig he's
also on the list what's he up to these
days director of research at Google the
signatories of this open letter are not
AI lightweights who else have we got
demis hassabis and just about everyone
at deep mind Yan lacunae head of AI at
Facebook
Michael Wooldridge head of the computer
science department at Oxford
I mean I'm skipping over big people but
yep Tom Mitchell I know him from a
little book I used as a PhD student you
know this guy's an expert because the
name of his book is just the name of the
subject that's not a totally reliable
heuristic though and when my point in
this video is just if you're talking to
people about AI safety it's not cheating
to say oh these high status respectable
people agree with me but if you're going
to do that pay attention to who you're
talking to if it's someone who's heard
of Russell and Norvig they're likely to
find that much more convincing than the
Elon Musk and
honking and don't use me for this I am
just a guy on YouTube I just want to
thank my amazing patreon supporters and
in particular Ichiro Doki who skips the
queue by sponsoring me $20 a month I
don't even have a $20 a month reward
level now is going to make one that's a
good problem to have anyway thank you so
much you might have noticed that the gap
between this video and the previous one
is shorter than usual and it's largely
thanks to my patreon supporters that I'm
able to do that so thanks again and I'll
see you next time yeah